---
layout: default
key: 2

title: "Community Engaged CS"
icon: fas fa-backpack

---

<p>
  {{ site.data.blurbs.cs101 }}
</p>

{% include anchor.html h="h2" text="Fall 2019" %}

This course was offered as a two unit special-topics course "CS 186-02 Community Engaged CS" in Fall 2019. The course website and syllabus are located at:

  - **<https://scholars.cs.usfca.edu/cs186-fall2019/index.html>**
  - **<https://scholars.cs.usfca.edu/cs186-fall2019/syllabus.html>**
  {: .list-none }

The following are the general materials used for this course:

  - **[Introduction](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vQc4OrOeeaAlRxJILHYcjzvEL1Z-wSrc7jfUcrnmqoPOO9wQYszpIFSNK2nPgmbeCUDOvpg4pQpDd_H/pub?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000)**: These are the slides used to introduce the course and break the ice on the first day.

  - **[CS Unplugged: Binary Representation](https://www.csunplugged.org/en/topics/binary-numbers/unit-plan/codes-for-letters-using-binary-representation-junior/)**: We did the binary representation exercise in class using printed binary cards. (Templates available at the provided link.)

The following are the Canvas assignments under the "Participation" category, which were worth 25% of the final grade:

  - **[Pizza Setup](#):** Pending

  - **[Profile Photographs](#):** Pending

  - **[Github Pages](#):** Pending

  - **[Google Slides](#):** Pending

  - **Speaker Questions:** This Canvas discussion assignment was created per speaker. It asked:

      > Post a question here for our upcoming guest speaker. You can ask about the speaker's educational and/or professional experiences. You are encouraged but not required to ask this question during the Q&A session.

      Speaker information, including name, degree, graduation date, current position, and LinkedIn profile was also included. Students had to post their question the day before the speaker. The questions were shared with the speaker ahead of time, and students were encouraged to ask these questions in class.

  - **Speaker Reflection:** This Canvas assignment (with text entry) was created per speaker. It asked:

      > Write 1 to 3 complete sentences with specific examples on what you learned from the guest speaker presentation and/or a thank you message for our guest speaker.
      >
      > Here is an example of a message that does NOT meet the criteria and will not receive a passing grade:
      >
      >  > "Thank you! I learned a lot."
      >
      > Here is an example of a message that DOES meet the criteria and will receive a passing grade.
      >
      >  > "I took your advice to update my Linkedin Profile and customize my profile URL. I feel more prepared to use Linkedin for networking. Thank you!"
      >
      > A selection of comments will be shared anonymously with the guest speaker.

      Sample comments from students were shared anonymously with speakers as part of a post-event thank you letter.

  - **Presentation Feedback:** This Canvas discussion assignment was created per student presentation. It asked:

      > #### Speakers
      > Post your presentation topic (and any links or materials you want to share) below BEFORE your presentation date. If you fail to post before then, you will not be able to see the feedback comments from the audience.
      > #### Audience
      > Post 1 to 3 sentences with specific constructive feedback or encouragement for the speaker. For example, the following is NOT considered specific constructive feedback or encouragement:
      >  > Nice talk!
      >
      >  > I am not interested in [topic].
      >
      > The following is an example of specific feedback or encouragement:
      >
      >  > I really loved your passion on [topic] and learned [something]! You could speak just a little louder; it was hard to understand you a couple of times.
      >
      > Make sure your comments are constructive and adhere to the Student Code of Conduct.

      Speakers could view the comments from their peers after their presentation.

Students had to present on a topic in CS during class. The following are the associated assignments, which were worth 25% of the final grade:

  - **[Presentation Date](#):** Pending

  - **[Presentation Topic](#):** Pending

  - **[Presentation Materials](#):** Pending

  - **[Presentation](#):** Pending  

  - **[Speaking Center](#):** Pending

Finally, students also had to complete assignments in the "Community Engagement" category, which were worth 25% of the final grade:

  - Pending

These assignments were worth 25% of the final grade.

{% include anchor.html h="h2" text="Fall 2020" %}

<p>
  Curriculum developed as part of this course will be posted here when this program concludes.
</p>
